---
layout: post
title: MIMIC II
---
## What Is MIMIC II?
MIMIC is an acronym for Multiparameter Intelligent Monitoring in Intensive Care. The following is taken from the MIMIC II User Guide:

> The MIMIC II database was collected as part of a Bioengineering Research
Partnership (BRP) grant from the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging
and Bioengineering ... The project was established in October 2003
and included an interdisciplinary team from academia (MIT), industry (Philips
Medical Systems) and clinical medicine (Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Cen-
ter). 

This is an ongoing effort and the current project (MIMIC IV) is restricted to credentialed medical researchers. The older MIMIC II clinical database has been made available to the public on [Kaggle.com](https://www.kaggle.com/drscarlat/mimic2-original-icu), and is sufficient for my purposes. Many thanks to [Alexander Scarlat MD](https://www.kaggle.com/drscarlat) for making this available

## My Purpose 
I intend to use the MIMIV II clinical database for data engineering and analytics projects with the objective of demonstrating proficiency with database management systems and various analytical techniques. This is a large and complex database and I expect that there will be some challenges, but I also expect this will be a rich source of material for analysis.

## Current Status
My first task will be to reconstruct the database on a locally installed PostgreSQL DBMS. There is some schema information in the User Guide and column headers in the csv files. This information is helpful but incomplete. Looking at the data will help to fill in the blanks.

 
